22 woRD-GROUPS.

militas, usesulncss, utility.
instilis, useless.
, fisus, use, need.

vm, [VAG·]‚ move, carry.

vehi), bear, carry.

invehor, bear one’s self against,
attack, inveegle against.

perveha, carry, carry to,

vectigal, income, revenue, tax.

obviam [for vehiam], in the way
oſs

velum [for vehelum]‚ soil.

vers, [vs-‚ nes, go.

venio, corne.
advenio, come to, arreoe.
invenis), come upon, find.
pervenio, come to, arrive at.
adventuS‚ approach, arrival.
contib [for con-venti6], meeting.
conventus, muling, ossembly.
adventa come to, approach.
arbitror (ar=ad) [go to as wit·
ness],jndge.
arbitrium, judgmcnt, will.

vm, turn.

verto, turn.

ivertc’), turn away.
affert& turn to.

converto, turn completely, turn.

Ἦ

revertor, turn back, return.
animadverto, turn tle attention to.
versus, turning, linc, verse.

versor, keep turning, move about,
bc.

adversus, turn trenam, sacing,
against.

adversarius, opponent.

adversum (prep.), against.

adversum (subst.), calamity.

exadversum, over against.

diversus, turned different ways,
different.

rssrsus [for re·vorsus], turned
back, backeoard, again.

Universus, turned into one, all,
wleole.

v1-, vlo, twine.

vinum, winc(product of the vine).

vinolentus, full ο] wine.

vinea, vineyard, slecd (built like
an arbor for vines).

devincis), bind fast.

vinculum, setter.

vitium, fault (twist).

Vlc·, conqucr.

vines), conquer.

devinci), conquer completely, seca
due.

victor, conqueror.
victoria, victory.
invictus, unconquercal.

 

