vi PREFACE.

recognition, the present edition has been limited to nine
oi the “Live5,” selected with special reference to their
historical value. ln the biographies oi Miltiades, Themis
tocles, Cimon, and Alcibiades, we get glimpses oi Athens
and Athenian lile and spirit in the most interesting period
of the development of the state. In those oi Pausanias
and Agesilaus, Nepos shows us something ol the peculiar
Spartan government, and draws a contrast between the
characters ol two oi the most famous Spartan kings. In
the 'story of Pelopidas and Epaminondas we discover how
it was that Thebes was enabled to secure a prominent
place among the peoples ol Greece. Lastly the story ol
Hannibal, dealing with his vow, his hatred of Rome,
his marvelous ability as a general, the fear with which
he inspired the Romans, is preeminently worthy to be

included in any selection ol representative lives lrom
Nepos.

The text is, with a lew minor alterations, that ol Halm;
the orthography is made unilorm with that oi the other
books in this series. In response to many requests the
quantity ol long vowels has been indicated throughout the

book. In determining quantitieS, and also in matters of
etymology, Lewis’ Elementary Dictionary has been ior the
most part, though not invariably, followed.

The synonyms placed at the loot ol each page of text,
and the word-groups printed just before the vocabulary,
will, it is hoped, be ol service in enlarging the pupil's

vocabulary and training him in his earliest reading to

cultivate the power ol associating words oi like origin.

 

