NOTES. 133

12. Itaque . . . vocitatus est: this was chiefly because it and
Andocides played leading parts in a suit-at-law in reference to
this mutilation. He did not erect it himself, but one of the ten
Attic tribes' had done so. The Athenians banisbed‘Andocides,
believing he was connected with the outrage.

13. hdc: subject accus. of esse factum.

13. appareret: the remainder of the clause is subject of this¹
verb.

14. quae. . . pertineret: having to do willa a matter ποίῳ(
private but os public concern ,· the subjunctive shows it to be
given as the thought of the people. Pericles established a com-
plete democracy, and there were clubs formed at once which con·
stantly labored for its overthrow.

16. multitudini: populace.

16. qua: some ; the indefinite nom. sing. fem.

16. repentina: an adj. with vis; trans. as an adv. with ex-
sisteret. ’
17. quae . . . opprimeret: the readiness of the Athenians to

think so, was due to their habitual state of mind; cf the tense
of extimiscibant,p.8,l.11; cf also Them.8,1; Cimon 3, 1.

18. hoc: i.e.‚ the forming of a conspiracy to overthrow the
democracy.

, 18. convenire in: to be likely of, lit. to come together to.

19. maior: cf. the meaning of magnus, p. 20, l. 1. The com-
parative may be translated too powerful, etc„ sor.

19. privatus: cf uon videbatur posse esse privatus, p. 8, l. 13.

20. devinxerat: (devincit) supply sibi3 lead laid under olli·
gatr'ons to lzlm.

21. pluris etiam: still more, thus often etiam with a com·
parative.

21. opera forensi: assistance in court; the word foriusi and
the fact of pleading in court for another Nepos borrows from
Roman affairs. At Rome the law-courts were held in the Forum
and advocates were allowed3 at Athens the law required each
inan personally to conduct his own defense.

23- prodisset: torporiosam pro (old form prod) . . . eo, as
below pro (prod) . . . esse :prodessa

 

